
--- PAGE 1 ---
7/3/24
AGREEMENT
By and between the
TOWN OF RIVERHEAD
And
Civil Service Employees Association, Inc., Local 1000
AFSCME, AFL-CIO
Riverhead Unit of the Suffolk Local #852
CSEA
Town of Riverhead Unit
Suffolk County Local 852
January 1, 2023 – December 31, 2025

--- PAGE 2 ---
7/3/24
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE TITLE PAGE
#
I DURATION 1
II RECOGNITION 2
III HOURS OF WORK 3
Basic Work Week 3
Overtime 4
Holidays 4
Personal Leave 5
Parentage Leave 6
Funeral Leave 6
Military Leave 7
Jury Services 7
Court Appearance 7
Miscellaneous 7
Night Differential 7
Overnight Differential 8
IV VACATIONS 8
V SICK LEAVE 10
VI SENIORITY 15
VII EMPLOYEE PROTECTION 16
VIII GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE 17
IX PENSION AND LONGEVITY 19
X HEALTH INSURANCE 20
XI MANAGEMENT RIGHTS 25
XII GENERAL PROVISIONS 26
XIII WORKERS’ COMPENSATION 30
XIV JOB CLASSIFICATION & SALARY 31

--- PAGE 3 ---
7/3/24
XV WAGES 32
XVI DRESS CODE 35
XVII DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING 35
APPENDIX A SALARY STRUCTURE 39
APPENDIX B SALARY SCHEDULES 2023-2025 40
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
7/3/24
AGREEMENT made and entered in this __ day of July 2024 between THE
TOWN OF RIVERHEAD, County of Suffolk, State of New York and the Civil Service
Employees Association, Inc., Local 1000, AFSCME, AFL-CIO, Riverhead Unit of the
Suffolk Local #852 having its principal office at 3 Garet Place, Commack, County of
Suffolk, State of New York (“the CSEA”).
W I T N E S S E T H
WHEREAS, it is the intention and purpose of the parties to this Agreement to
promote and continue harmonious relations between the Town and its employees, and
to provide a procedure for the prompt, peaceful, and equitable adjustment of differences
which may arise from time to time between the Town and its employees to the end that
there will be no interference with the orderly government of the Town during the term of
this Agreement, and
WHEREAS, this Agreement succeeds an Agreement between the parties, last
dated December 16, 2019, which agreement is hereby superseded to the extent that the
terms thereof are not specifically set forth in this Agreement, and
WHEREAS, this Agreement has been negotiated by the parties in conformity
with the terms and conditions of the Civil Service Law of the State of New York, and
those negotiations and Agreements have been reduced to writing in this Agreement,
which cannot be, in whole or in part, amended orally by the parties.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED:
ARTICLE 1
DURATION
1. This Agreement will be effective as of January 1, 2023 and will continue in full
force and effect until and including the 31st day of December 2025.
2. In the event that the negotiations for a contract effective January 1, 2026, fail
to result in an Agreement before the expiration of this Agreement, this
Agreement will remain in full force and effect until the execution of a new
Agreement. All provisions of the Civil Service Law of the State of New York
are deemed to be incorporated herein, and in the event any provisions are
contrary to the Civil Service Law of the State of New York, then that law will
prevail.
3. 3. IT IS AGREED BY AND BETWEEN THE PARTIES THAT ANY
PROVISION OF THIS AGREEMENT REQUIRING LEGISLATIVE ACTION
TO PERMIT ITS IMPLEMENTATION BY AMENDMENT OF LAW OR BY
PROVIDING THE ADDITIONAL FUNDS THEREFOR, SHALL NOT BECOME
1

--- PAGE 5 ---
7/3/24
EFFECTIVE UNTIL THE APPROPRIATE LEGISLATIVE BODY HAS GIVEN
APPROVAL.
ARTICLE 2
RECOGNITION
1. The Town recognizes the Civil Service Employees Association, Local 1000,
AFSCME, AFL-CIO, Riverhead Unit of Suffolk Local # 852 (“the CSEA”), as
the sole and exclusive representative for all full-time employees and regular
part-time employees of the Town, who, after 12 months’ continuous service
and both during and after the 12 month period, work a minimum of 10 hours
per week, except elected and appointed public officers, department heads,
confidential employees including Secretary to the Town Supervisor, Assistant
to the Town Supervisor, Secretary to the Town Attorney, Secretarial Assistant
to the Town Board, Secretary to the Highway Superintendent, Assistant
Water District Superintendent, Deputy Town Engineers, and Senior Waste
Water Treatment Plant Operator Tim Allen, and employees represented by
the Riverhead Police Benevolent Association, Inc. and the Riverhead Town
Police Superior Officers Benevolent Association, Inc. and any title designated
managerial and/or confidential by PERB. This recognition is for the period of
this contract or extensions thereof and is for the purpose of collective
bargaining and employee labor relations as the same are defined in the New
York State Civil Service Law.
2. The Suffolk Local CSEA and the Riverhead Unit of that Local affirms that it
does not assert the right to strike against the Town, to assist or participate in
any strike, picket, job action, or any work slowdown, or to impose an
obligation upon its members to conduct or to participate in any strike.
3. The Town recognizes the right of the employees to designate the Unit
President or his/her designee and/or Unit Vice President to appear on their
behalf to discuss salaries, working conditions, grievances, and disputes
relative to the terms and the conditions of this agreement and to visit
employees during working hours. The parties mutually agree that the time
the Unit President or his/her designee and/or Unit Vice President spends
away from his/her job duties will be devoted to the prompt handling of
legitimate grievances and the Unit President or his/her designee and/or Unit
Vice President will work at his/her assigned job duties at all times except
when necessary to leave his/her work to handle grievances as provided
herein. In addition, the Unit President’s or his/her designee and/or Unit Vice
President’s activities will not disrupt the orderly and smooth operation of Town
government.
4. The Town will make available Town facilities for CSEA meetings upon notice
and approval of the Town Supervisor and/or his/her designee.
2

--- PAGE 6 ---
7/3/24
5. The Town will supply to the Unit President a list of all employees in the
bargaining unit, showing the employee’s full name, job title, department,
membership status, insurance deduction and first date of employment. This
information will be provided to the President on an annual basis.
6. The CSEA will have exclusive rights to payroll deduction of dues and union
sponsored insurance and benefit program premiums for unit members.
Those dues and premiums will be remitted to the Civil Service Employees
Association, Inc., 143 Washington Avenue, Albany, New York 12210 on a
payroll basis. The CSEA will indemnify and save and hold the Town and any
and all of its employees, representatives, officers and/or members of the
Town Board (collectively “employees”) harmless against any and all claims,
demands, suits or other forms of liability that may arise out of, or by reason of,
any action taken or not taken by the Town or any of its employees for the
purpose of complying with the agency fee (effective upon the complete
ratification and approval of the 2023-2025 Agreement, “agency fee” will be
deleted), dues and premiums deduction provisions of this agreement and/or
State Law. In addition, the CSEA will reimburse the Town for any and all
legal expenses associated with the defense of any such claim, demand or
suit.
7. The Town agrees to deduct from the salaries of its employees’ membership
dues and/or life, sickness and accident deductions for the CSEA from those
employees who voluntarily and individually authorize the Town Board to
deduct and to transmit the moneys to the CSEA. Employee authorizations
will be in writing and deductions so made uniformly and consistently in each
pay period. Those funds collected will be transmitted to the Treasurer of the
CSEA, Inc. each month. Deductions authorized by any employee will
continue as authorized until the employee notifies the Town in writing to
discontinue same or to change the authorization. Notification of
discontinuance or change in authorization will be in writing and submitted to
the Town in duplicate, one copy of which will be forwarded to the Unit
Treasurer of the CSEA. The CSEA assumes full responsibility for the
disposition of the deducted funds once they are turned over to the CSEA.
ARTICLE 3
HOURS OF WORK
1. Basic Work Week
a. The basic workweek for all “Administrative” and “Clerical and Supervisory”
employees will be 35 hours.
b. The basic workweek for “Operational and Technical” employees will be 40
hours.
3

--- PAGE 7 ---
7/3/24
c. The basic workweek for Sewer and Water personnel may be varied at
Town Board discretion, but at no time will the accumulated hours in the
two week pay period be less than 80 hours.
d. The basic workweek for Sanitation personnel may vary at Town Board
discretion, but at no time will the accumulated hours in the two week pay
period be less than 73.5 hours.
e. The basic workday for “Public Safety Dispatcher” employees will be eight
hours. The work year will consist of 238 days.
f. Lunch period for the above classes of employees is not considered part of
the working day.
g. The workweek for regular, part-time employees will not exceed 20 hours
for noncompetitive positions and 17.5 hours for competitive positions,
exclusive of lunch periods. Part-time employees become regular, part-
time employees after 12 months’ continuous service and both during the
12 month period and after must work a minimum of 10 hours per week.
2. Overtime
a. All permanent, full-time employees will be compensated for hours worked
in excess of the workday at time and one-half.
b. Employees who are called in to work during non-regularly scheduled work
hours, on an approved day off (excluding regular days off), will be
compensated at the rate of time and one-half the regular rate of pay for
each of those hours actually worked if the employee is charged for the
day. Employees who are called in to work during regularly scheduled
work hours, on an approved day off (excluding regular days off), will be
compensated at the regular rate of pay for each of those hours actually
worked and will be permitted to reschedule the hours worked on another
mutually agreeable day within the employee’s pay week, or to reschedule
the time on another mutually agreeable day outside of that pay week at
the rate of one and one-half times the number of hours worked.
c. Flex Time
A full time employee and his/her department head, upon their mutual
consent, as well as the approval of the Town Supervisor and CSEA
President or their designees, may flex the employee’s work hours within
the employee’s defined workweek, provided that the impact upon the
Town is cost-neutral.
4

--- PAGE 8 ---
7/3/24
3. Holidays. Holidays are to be as follows:
New Year’s Day Independence Day
Martin Luther King’s Birthday Labor Day
Washington’s Birthday Columbus Day
Memorial Day Election Day
Juneteenth (effective June 18, 2024) Thanksgiving Day
Veteran’s Day Day after Thanksgiving
Good Friday or Easter Sunday Christmas Day
If any of these holidays fall on Sunday, except for Easter Sunday, the
following Monday will be observed. If the holiday falls on Saturday, the
preceding Friday will be observed. Employees who are required to work on
these holidays will receive compensation at the rate of time and one-half for
all hours worked in addition to their regular holiday pay. If a full-time
employee in the Water, Waste Water or Police Departments who regularly
works a non-traditional work week is on a regular day off on a regularly
scheduled holiday, the employee may continue to carry that holiday as a
compensatory day, or be paid at straight time.
Employees hired on or after July 2, 2019 will not be eligible for holiday pay for
any holiday that falls within his/her first 30 calendar days of actual service.
An employee who calls in sick on the day before or after two holidays in a
calendar year must, in order to be paid for subsequent holidays that year,
provide a doctor’s note to his/her supervisor within two business days upon
returning to work for any subsequent absences occurring on the day before or
after a holiday.
4. Personal Leave
a. 35 hours of personal leave for ‘Administrative’ and ‘Clerical and
Supervisory’ employees and 40 hours of personal leave for ‘Operational
and Technical’ employees and ‘Public Safety Dispatchers’ will accrue to
each employee on January 1 of each calendar year.
b. Effective for employees hired on or after July 2, 2019, personal leave will
be prorated during the first and last year of employment based on the
number of completed months of service. If an employee exceeds his/her
prorated personal leave allotment prior to separation from service, the
excess leave will be deducted from his/her final paycheck.
c. Regular, part-time employees are not entitled to personal leave.
d. Personal leave may be accumulated with a maximum accumulation of 105
hours for “Administrative” and “Clerical and Supervisory” employees and
5

--- PAGE 9 ---
7/3/24
120 hours for “Operational and Technical” and “Public Safety
Dispatchers.” At no point in time may an employee’s accumulation
exceed the maximum accumulation. The Town will not unreasonably
withhold its approval that the cap may be exceeded where the excess is
directly attributable to a Town-approved workers’ compensation leave of
absence. Unused personal leave may not be converted to sick time.
e. Personal leave will not be used for the purpose of vacation, holidays, or
extensions thereof, or for extension of weekends.
f. Personal leave must be approved by the department head, and the
employee must request this leave at least 48 hours in advance unless the
personal leave is deemed to be an emergency of which the employee had
no prior knowledge. An employee absent due to emergency personal
leave must notify his/her supervisor of the absence within the first half-
hour of his/her working day or shift. Failure to notify his/her supervisor of
his/her absence will result in loss of pay for the day’s absence.
g. No employee will be required to use accrued personal leave time prior to
the use of accrued vacation time.
5. Parentage Leave
An employee, with one year’s employment, may be granted a leave of
absence without pay not to exceed 12 months, without extension, during a 21
month window, from nine months before the expected birth or adoption to
twelve months after the birth or adoption. This leave will apply equally to both
mother and father of the child, but may not apply to a provisional employee
(Civil Service Requirements). The employee will be reinstated in the same or
comparable position.
6. Funeral Leave
a. Permanent full-time annual salaried employees will be entitled to funeral
leave without charge against accumulated vacation, sick leave and/or
personal leave.
b. Employees will be entitled to four consecutive working days’ leave of
absence computed either from the day of death or the day following death
at the employee’s option, for death of the employee’s spouse, child
(including adopted children), father, mother, brother, sister, parents-in-law,
effective March 22, 2023, stepparents, grandparents-in-law (effective
March 22, 2023), grandparents-in-law will be deleted), grandparents,
grandchildren, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law or
stepchild.
6

--- PAGE 10 ---
7/3/24
c. Inclusion of any other members of family will not be permitted for funeral
leave. The Supervisor, in his/her sole, nonreviewable discretion, may
grant one day paid leave to attend the funeral of any other members of the
employee’s family.
7. Military Leave
Military leaves of absence will be granted in accordance with law.
8. Jury Services
Employees, regardless of shift, will be paid their regular salary minus jury duty
fees while physically attending jury service on the same calendar day as they
are otherwise scheduled to work, upon documentary proof being filed with the
Town Supervisor. Employees must notify their department head immediately
upon receiving notification that they are being required to report for jury duty.
Travel allowance of mileage compensation checks for jury service is to be
retained by the employee. Employees will request that they be placed “on
call” for jury service, where available.
9. Court Appearance
Absence of any employee due to appearance as a defendant or witness in
any court action involving the Town will be approved by the Town Supervisor
for the number of days necessary. Employees will not lose any salary
therefore.
10. Miscellaneous
The Town Board retains the sole discretion to grant a full or partial day
excused absence from work for days of national mourning or other reasons
acceptable to the Town. In this event, employees who are required to work
during hours otherwise granted to unit members as excused absences will be
granted the same number of hours for future use as compensatory time as
set forth in this agreement.
11. Night Differential
Any full-time employee working more than five full regularly scheduled, non-
overtime, shifts in a calendar month that encompass any hour between 10:00
p.m. and 4:00 a.m. will be entitled to receive a $100 night shift differential
bonus for that month payable as part of an overtime check run during the
following June or December, whichever comes first. This bonus will not be
construed as part of base salary for any monetary calculation other than as
may be required for FLSA overtime payment purposes.
7

--- PAGE 11 ---
7/3/24
Effective March 22, 2023, any full-time employee who actually works 12 or
more non-overtime 3:30 p.m. – 12:00 a.m. shifts in the Sewer District or 1:00
p.m. – 9:30 p.m. summer seasonal shifts in the Water District in a given
month will receive a $200 night shift differential bonus for that month. In
addition, Public Safety Dispatchers who actually work five or more non-
overtime 3:00 p.m. – 11:00 p.m. shifts in a given month, unless the employee
is receiving an “overnight shift differential bonus” for the month as indicated
below in subsection 12 (“Overnight Differential”), will receive a $200 night shift
differential bonus for that month. In addition, effective retroactive to February
12, 2024, any full-time Custodian who actually works 16 or more non-
overtime shifts starting at 2:00 P.M. – 10:00 P.M. or later in the Buildings and
Grounds Division of the Engineering Department in a given month will receive
a $200 night shift differential bonus for that month. In addition, effective
retroactive to May 10, 2024, any full-time Code Enforcement Officer who
actually works 16 or more non-overtime shifts starting at 2:00 P.M. – 10:00
P.M. or later in a given month will receive a $200 night shift differential bonus
for that month. The night shift differential bonus will be payable as part of an
overtime check run during the following June or December, whichever comes
first. This bonus will not be construed as part of base salary for any monetary
calculation other than as may be required for FLSA overtime payment
purposes.
12. Overnight Differential
Effective March 22, 2023, any full-time employee who actually works 12 or
more non-overtime 9:00 p.m. – 7:30 a.m. shifts in the Water District in a given
month will receive a $400 night shift differential bonus for that month. In
addition, Public Safety Dispatchers who actually work five or more non-
overtime steady overnight shifts in a given month will receive a $400
overnight shift differential bonus for that month. The overnight shift differential
bonus will be payable as part of an overtime check run during the following
June or December, whichever comes first. This bonus will not be construed
as part of base salary for any monetary calculation other than as may be
required for FLSA overtime payment purposes.
ARTICLE 4
VACATIONS
1. For the purpose of this article, all employees will be deemed to have the
same employment anniversary date: January 1.
8

--- PAGE 12 ---
7/3/24
2. Permanent full-time employees of the Town will be entitled to annual (January
1 to December 31) vacations as follows:
“Administrative” “Operational & Technical”
“Clerical & Supervisory” “Public Safety Dispatchers”
a. Until completion of
the first calendar year of continuous service
(prorated per Article 4(3)) ...... Up to 35 hrs. Up to 40 hrs.
b. After the first calendar year
of continuous service………….70hrs. 80hrs.
c. After seven calendar years
of continuous service………….105 hrs. 120 hrs.
d. After 12 calendar years
of continuous service………….140 hrs. 160 hrs.
e. After 15 calendar years
of continuous service………….175 hrs. 200 hrs.
In no event will any employee with less than the completion of seven calendar
years of continuous service receive more than 10 working days of vacation in
any one calendar year (January 1 to December 31), except in those cases
where employees are carrying over vacation days pursuant to Article 4(6) and
Article 12(17).
Regular, part-time employees will be given one hour of vacation for every
17.5 hours (“Administrative” and “Clerical & Supervisory” positions)/20 hours
(“Operational & Technical and “Public Safety Dispatchers” positions) worked
in the calendar year after one year of service.
3. Effective for employees hired on or after July 2, 2019, vacation leave will be
prorated during the first and last year of employment based on the number of
completed months of service. If an employee exceeds his/her prorated
vacation leave allotment prior to separation from service, the excess leave will
be deducted from his/her final paycheck.
4. Employees, upon request, will be paid their vacation pay prior to the vacation,
provided that they will have given three weeks’ notice to the Supervisor.
5. Upon retirement or termination of service, except for cause, employees will be
compensated in cash for any accumulated vacation.
9

--- PAGE 13 ---
7/3/24
6. It will be the duty of the department heads to schedule vacations with the
cooperation of the various employees of the department, and the department
head will notify employees of vacation time assigned and approve such
vacation time four weeks in advance of the time designated for the
employee’s vacation.
7. An employee may carry over any unused vacation hours from one year into
the following year, but in no event will an employee whose title is found on the
“Administrative” or “Clerical and Supervisory” salary schedules carry over
more than 105 vacation hours from one year to the next and an employee
whose title is found on the “Operational and Technical” or “Public Safety
Dispatchers” salary schedules carry over more than 120 vacation hours from
one year to the next. The Town will not unreasonably withhold its approval
that the cap may be exceeded where the excess is directly attributable to a
Town-approved workers’ compensation leave of absence. In this instance,
none of the days carried over may be sold back to the Town pursuant to
Article 4 (9).
8. In case of catastrophic family illness, an employee may be granted an
advance of the next year’s vacation time to be used during the current year if
the employee has sufficient accumulated sick time to serve as collateral and
upon approval of the Town Board.
9. Each employee will be entitled to sell back to the Town up to three weeks of
previously accrued unused vacation time at the employee’s option, pursuant
to the same procedures as are described in Article 5 (6) for the reduction of
sick time, excluding the requirements of a minimum and maximum number of
banked days.
ARTICLE 5
SICK LEAVE
1. Sick leave is absence necessitated by illness or other physical disability of the
employee. In order to be eligible to receive sick leave on any given day, the
employee must, immediately after contacting his/her department pursuant to
that department’s standard procedure for requesting sick leave, also call the
FMLA/Sick Line at 727-3200, X777 and advise that the employee is going to
be absent from work that day, as well as whether the employee is requesting
FMLA coverage for the absence because of a serious medical condition.
Effective March 22, 2023, the preceding sentence will be deleted. Effective
March 22, 2023, in order to be eligible to receive sick leave on any given day,
the employee must contact his/her department pursuant to that department’s
standard procedure for requesting sick leave, but in any event not later than
30 minutes prior to the start of the employee’s shift, and advise that the
employee is going to be absent from work that day. Failure to do so will result
10

--- PAGE 14 ---
7/3/24
in the denial of the use of accrued leave time to be paid for the absence,
except where, in the Town’s sole discretion, the employee has provided
sufficient proof of having contacted his/her department pursuant to the
requirements and timeframe set forth in this paragraph.
2. Sick leave will be accumulated at the rate of 1 ¼ days per month (15 days per
year), total accumulated sick leave of 230 days. After 230 days, additional
paid sick leave may be granted in the sole discretion of the Town Board by
resolution. Sick pay will not be paid to an employee during the first six
months’ employment.
a. Regular, part-time employees will be paid sick leave at the rate of one
hour for every 40 hours worked in any one year, or total accumulated sick
leave of 60 days.
b. In order to receive sick leave, all employees will, when absent because of
sickness for more than three days, furnish the Town Supervisor with a
medical certificate. Failure to furnish a medical certificate will result in loss
of pay for absent days.
c. An employee absent on sick leave will notify his/her supervisor of the
absence not later than 30 minutes prior to the start of his/her working day
or shift. Failure to notify his/her supervisor of his/her absence due to
sickness will result in loss of pay for the day(s) absent. Effective March 22,
2023, the preceding two sentences will be deleted. Effective March 22,
2023, where the employee submits to the Personnel Department, using
the below-referenced designated e-mail address, a doctor’s note
indicating the date(s) on which the employee will be absent due to the
FMLA leave/workers’ compensation leave, the employee need not send a
separate e-mail to the Personnel Department for each day of the leave for
the dates covered by the doctor’s note.
d. The Town Supervisor, in his/her discretion, may request a physical
examination of the employee before his/her return to work.
e. Effective March 22, 2023, if an employee’s absence is due to an approved
FMLA leave or a workers’ compensation leave, the employee must, in
addition to following the above procedure for reporting the employee’s
absence to his/her immediate supervisor, send an e-mail within 24 hours
following the start of the employee’s shift to the Personnel Department,
using the Town’s designated e-mail address, and state to which leave
(i.e., FMLA or workers’ compensation) the employee is requesting that the
day be charged. Failure to do so will result in the denial of the use of
accrued leave time to be paid for the absence, except where, in the
Town’s sole discretion, the employee has provided sufficient proof of
attempting to send the notification e-mail pursuant to the requirements and
11

--- PAGE 15 ---
7/3/24
timeframe set forth in this paragraph. This e-mail notification is not
required for reporting non-FMLA/workers’ compensation absences.
3. Upon retirement, resignation or death, an employee or his/her legal
representative will be paid in a lump sum the value of the employee’s
accumulated and unused sick leave as follows:
a. 100% of the first 225 unused accrued sick days as of the date of
retirement, resignation or death provided that the employee during his/her
employment with the Town had:
i. at least 125 accrued unused sick days at the end of any calendar year;
or
ii. sold back sick days pursuant to the provisions of this agreement; or
b. 75% of the first 225 unused accrued sick days provided that the employee
had at least 50 unused accrued sick days as of the date of retirement,
resignation or death.
c. Vacation & Sick Leave for Part-Time Employees. One hour for every
17.5/35 or 20/40 hours worked.
Effective for employees hired on or after July 2, 2019, upon retirement,
resignation or death, an employee or his/her legal representative will be paid
in a lump sum the value of the employee’s accumulated and unused sick
leave as follows:
a. 75% of the first 225 unused accrued sick days as of the date of retirement,
resignation or death provided that the employee during his/her
employment with the Town had:
i. at least 125 accrued unused sick days at the end of any calendar year;
or
ii. sold back sick days pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement; or
b. 50% of the first 225 unused accrued sick days provided that the employee
had at least 50 unused accrued sick days as of the date of retirement,
resignation or death.
c. Vacation & Sick Leave for Part-Time Employees. One hour for every
17.5/35 or 20/40 hours worked.
4. An employee who falls ill while on vacation, upon presentation of a medical
certificate certifying the employee was ill for three days or more during his/her
vacation, may charge this illness to sick leave upon proper notification to the
Town Supervisor.
12

--- PAGE 16 ---
7/3/24
5. The parties mutually agree that excessive absenteeism due to abuse of sick
leave should be discouraged. Therefore, the Town may request a doctor’s
certificate from chronic abusers of sick leave (e.g., numerous illness
absences even though the employee has accumulated sick leave), regardless
of the length of the illness. Any employee submitting a claim based on a false
statement, or covering a period during which the employee was not actually
disabled, will be considered as abusing the sick leave provision. Employees
who abuse the sick leave provision will be subject to disciplinary action.
6. Employees reporting for duty and becoming sick, whom the department
supervisor sends home, will receive pay for the hours actually worked and will
be charged sick time, if any, in order to be paid for the remainder of the work
day.
7. An employee may elect to reduce the sick time accrued under Paragraph (1)
by filing a written election with the Town Supervisor before September 1, in
the form provided by the Town, for payment to be made in the last week in
January of the following year. Buy-outs will be in lots of 25 sick days. No
buy-out will be permitted unless at the time of election the employee has
accumulated at least 125 sick days. The minimum number of sick days may
not fall below 50 days. The rate of pay will be calculated at the time of
payment, and an employee who elects this option may not receive an amount
in excess of what he/she would receive upon severance.
8. An employee having made this election has agreed that the maximum sick
leave payable to the employee during his/her employment or upon his/her
retirement will be 225 days. Any payments made prior to retirement will be
deducted from the gross number of days that may be paid to an employee at
retirement. An employee who has “bought-out” sick leave during his/her
career will be permitted to re-accumulate sick days to a maximum of 230 days
but will not be permitted to re-accumulate for payment purposes and the
additional days representing days already “bought-out” may be taken for sick
time purposes only. An employee who has made this election will not, under
any circumstances, be granted additional sick time by the Town Board if total
accumulated sick leave is not sufficient for the employee’s future needs.
7. Sick Leave Bank
a. Voluntary Membership: All full-time employees wishing to join the sick
leave bank can do so, but only on a full calendar year basis. Yearly
membership applications must be submitted by December 15 for the
ensuing year. Full-time employees appointed during the year can elect to
join the bank for the next calendar year only. There will be no prorated
membership.
13

--- PAGE 17 ---
7/3/24
b. Cost of Membership: Employees wishing to join the sick leave bank must
contribute two days of accrued time by January 15 of the coverage year.
Employees will be permitted to contribute any type of accrued time that
they have on January 15, but must make that choice by the December 15
application date. The default will be sick time. Employees will vest in the
sick bank upon 15 years of continuous membership or upfront
contributions of a total 30 days of time. Vesting means contributions will
no longer be required. An employee, at his/her option, can donate more
than the required days, provided this is set forth in the application by
December 15.
c. Eligibility Criteria
1. Only full-time employees are eligible to participate.
2. Employees must be members of the sick leave bank at the time
of their request to use time from the bank.
3. At the time of the request, employees cannot be under
disciplinary sanctions resulting in potential loss of wages.
4. Employees must be out for a minimum of 45 working days for
the same illness prior to using sick leave bank days.
5. Employees must have exhausted all accrued time including
vacation, sick, personal and/or compensatory time prior to the
use of the sick leave bank.
6. The employee’s illness must be a “serious health condition”
pursuant to the FMLA.
d. Restrictions
1. The withdrawal of time from the sick leave bank by an individual
is limited to a maximum of 50% of the total unencumbered sick
leave available in the bank on the first day that time from the
bank is utilized for a particular absence or 120 days, whichever is
less. The maximum number of days (i.e., 50% or 120, whichever
is less) will become encumbered as of the first day of usage by
an individual for a particular absence.
2. Any withdrawal of days by an employee will require mandatory
membership by that employee in the sick leave bank in the
future until vesting.
14

--- PAGE 18 ---
7/3/24
3. An employee will not earn any accrued time during the use of
sick leave bank days.
4. Contributions to the sick leave bank are non-refundable (i.e.,
days are not returned to an employee if they are not used). In
addition, sick bank time has no value to employees other than
as set forth in this section.
e. Benefits
1. Employees meeting all of the above criteria may utilize up to a
maximum of 120 days in their lifetime.
2. Employees can utilize the 120 sick leave bank days for more
than one period of illness, but the total number of days used
cannot exceed 120 days combined.
3. All contributed sick days to the sick leave bank will be used in
the calculation for meeting thresholds at severance (Article 5
(2)), but in no event will the employee be paid for any days
contributed to this bank.
ARTICLE 6
SENIORITY
1. Competitive Class. Layoff and rehiring rights will be governed by Civil Service
Law Sections 80, 81, 82, 85 and 86 and the Rules and Regulations of the
Suffolk County Department of Civil Service.
2. Employees in All Other Civil Service Classes. Subject to applicable provisions
of law, and provided the employee to be retained and/or rehired has the
ability to perform the work assigned to him/her, layoff and rehiring rights will
be governed by the following rules. Seniority will be computed from the date
of employment. Each department will maintain a seniority list within its
department. If layoffs become necessary, within a job classification,
employees will be laid off by seniority, with temporary employees being laid
off first, then probationary employees, and then permanent employees.
Before hiring any new employees within a job classification, the available
work must be offered, in reverse order of layoff, to employees previously laid
off. Written notice will be sent to the employee by registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested, directing him/her to return to work in the department
at the appropriate date and time, not fewer than five days from the date of the
notice.
15

--- PAGE 19 ---
7/3/24
3. Failure of the employee to report to work on the date and time specified will
constitute an abandonment of the employee’s recall rights and will release the
Town from any further obligation to recall the employee.
4. Regular full-time employees will have preference over part-time or temporary
employees in a department as to overtime, if available and capable of
performing the required work.
ARTICLE 7
EMPLOYEE PROTECTION
1. All permanent, full-time employees covered by this agreement are offered the
protection of Section 75 of the Civil Service Law, except for conviction of a
felony or misdemeanor, upon which a hearing can be held at the discretion of
the Town notwithstanding the provisions of Section 75. The Town Board may
suspend without pay for more than 30 days a person charged by law
enforcement with a felony or misdemeanor. If proven innocent, he/she will
receive full back pay. Probationary employees can be discharged by the
Town in its sole discretion with or without just cause or without resort to the
grievance procedure.
2. Officers, limited to four members of the CSEA Unit, will be given the highest
departmental seniority while in office. A list will be annually furnished to the
Town.
3. Any former employee, upon being rehired, will be treated as a new employee
with regard to sick leave, vacation time, wages, seniority and all similar
benefits. An employee granted a leave of absence (parentage leave, unpaid
leave or leave of absence pursuant to Civil Service Law) will not lose any
seniority, sick leave, vacation hours or personal hours benefits already
accumulated as of the date leave is granted by the Town Board.
4. Safety equipment will be furnished to all appropriate personnel at no charge
at the discretion of the department head.
5. The CSEA will have the right to post notices pertaining to CSEA business on
bulletin boards which should be provided by the Town and located at all
appropriate Town facilities.
6. The CSEA Unit President or his/her authorized designee will be entitled to up
to a total of 14 working days paid released time per year to attend CSEA
conventions and/or Town-authorized special unit-wide meetings, provided
that the leave does not result in any overtime cost to the Town and the
employee receives prior authorization from his/her Department Head to take
the leave.
16

--- PAGE 20 ---
7/3/24
ARTICLE 8
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
1. Definition of Grievance. “Grievance” will mean any claimed violation,
misinterpretation or inequitable application of any of the provisions of this
agreement that are terms and conditions of employment provided, however,
that this term will not include:
a. disciplinary actions;
b. any matter that is covered by Article 3 (6)(c), Article 3 (10), Article 5 (1)
(4th sentence), Article 5 (1)(d), Article 7(1) (last sentence), Article 12 (4),
Article 12 (17), Article 15 (9) and Article 15 (8);
c. any issue pertaining to paragraph “44” of the 1998-2000 memorandum of
agreement between the parties; or
d. any matter that is otherwise reviewable pursuant to law or any rule or
regulation having the force and effect of law.
2. Consideration of Grievances. Employees, supervisors, and department
heads will exhaust every administrative device to settle amicably all
differences. In the interest of uniform procedure and to expedite handling of
grievances, employees will present their problem or grievance through
supervisory channels in the following order:
a. First Step. As a condition precedent to the initial filing and processing of a
grievance, the employee (or, in the case of a “class action” grievance, the
CSEA) must fully complete and submit the agreed upon grievance form to
his/her department head. The department head will make a determination
within 10 business days of receipt of the grievance, in writing, and present
a copy of same to the employee, the Unit President, and the Town
Supervisor.
b. Second Step. If a grievance is not satisfactorily resolved at the First Step,
the employee will appeal, in writing, to the Town Board within five
business days of receipt of the First Step determination. If the employee
fails to appeal, in writing to the Town Board within the above referenced
time, the determination of the First Step will be final as to the grievance.
Upon receipt of any appeal, the Town Board may request the employee to
submit an agreed statement of facts or his/her version of the facts, or any
other documents which the Town Board may deem pertinent to the
determination of the appeal.
17

--- PAGE 21 ---
7/3/24
The Town Board will conduct a hearing within 20 business days of receipt
of an appeal.
Within 20 business days after the hearing, the Town Board will make a
decision based on its findings and will advise, in writing, the Unit President
or his/her designee, department head, and the aggrieved employee. If the
Town Board fails to schedule the hearing on a timely basis, or fails to
make a timely decision, the grievance will be deemed to have been
denied, and the CSEA may proceed to the Third Step.
c. Third Step – Binding Arbitration. If the CSEA is not satisfied with the
decision at the Second Step, it may submit the grievance to arbitration if it
serves written notice (the Demand for Arbitration form submitted by the
CSEA) to the Town Supervisor’s Office within 10 business days of the
date of the decision at the Second Step. The Arbitrator will have
jurisdiction to consider only the contract section or sections, and the party
or parties identified as aggrieved that were specified in the grievance form
that was submitted at the first step. The parties will appoint an arbitrator
from the following rotating panel of arbitrators: Arthur Riegel, Bonnie
Siber-Weinstock and up to three other arbitrators to be agreed upon by
the parties. **Grievances for which arbitration has been demanded will be
submitted to the next available arbitrator on the Panel with the arbitrators
listed in alphabetical order. An arbitrator(s) may be removed from the
Panel by a party upon written notice to the other to be received by that
party by not later than December 1 each calendar year. Should this occur,
the parties will immediately meet to attempt to agree upon a
replacement(s). Failure to agree upon a replacement(s) will not be subject
to the grievance or arbitration procedure, PERB or court jurisdiction, or
other third party review, except that, if the Panel contains fewer than five
names for one or more months, then a party will have the unilateral option,
on written notice to the other, to replace the Panel for grievances not then
pending for arbitration through the New York State Public Employment
Relations Board as specified in the 2004-2007 Agreement.
The written report of the Arbitrator will contain a statement of the
Arbitrator’s findings of fact, reasoning, conclusions and binding award on
the issues submitted. The Arbitrator will have no authority to modify, alter,
add to or subtract from any of the terms of this agreement and will be
bound by its express terms. The Arbitrator will send a copy of his/her
written report to the CSEA, the Town and their representative(s). Costs of
the Arbitrator will be equally borne by the CSEA and the Town.
18

--- PAGE 22 ---
7/3/24
3. Time of Hearing
All discussions and hearings will, so far as practicable, be conducted during
working hours. The aggrieved employee will be allowed time off from regular
duty as may be necessary and reasonable for hearings.
4. Representation
The Unit President or his/her designee will be entitled to be present during the
presentation and processing of a grievance in all stages.
5. Limitations
If a grievance occurs and cannot be resolved immediately, the employee will
obey the directive and will present the grievances as soon thereafter as
practicable. Grievances which are not presented within 10 business days of
the occurrence will be deemed to have been abandoned.
6. Withdrawn Grievance
The Unit President or his/her designee may withdraw a grievance at any step
of the grievance procedure. The Unit President’s or his/her designee’s
decision on this matter will be binding on the employees involved.
7. Class Action Grievances
The CSEA will have the right to file a grievance directly at the Second Step if
the grievance affects a group of employees and is associated with a
department or Town-wide policy.
ARTICLE 9
PENSION AND LONGEVITY
1. All permanent full-time employees must be members of the New York State
Retirement System. All employees classified as Tier I or Tier II will be
covered by Plan 75i. All regular part-time employees also may, at their
option, become members of the New York State Retirement System. In the
event that the State Retirement System makes provisions for the modification
and/or revisions of this Retirement Plan, which can be determined by local
option, this agreement will immediately be reopened solely for the purpose of
negotiating which option is selected.
2. Full-time employees of the Town of Riverhead will receive longevity pay after
completing the following years of continuous service: 4% percent of yearly
salary without longevity pay after 10 years of continuous service; 5% percent
19

--- PAGE 23 ---
7/3/24
of yearly salary without longevity pay after 15 years of continuous service;
and 7% percent of yearly salary without longevity pay after 20 years of
continuous service. Longevity pay is paid to the employee in a lump sum
payment included with the overtime paycheck during the first full pay period of
the month in which the employee’s anniversary occurs.
Longevity payments will be prorated prior to anniversary only when the
employee is entitled to and has submitted an application to receive a pension
to the New York State Retirement System. Longevity will be based on the
January 1 salary of the current year.
ARTICLE 10
INSURANCE
1. Health Insurance
a. The Town will pay, on behalf of all full-time employees, the cost of either
the individual or family plan for hospitalization under the Riverhead Town
Hospitalization Plan as follows:
0 – 8 years of completed Town service: 75% of the premium
rates for the Empire Core Plus Enhancements Plan.
More than 8 years of completed Town service: 100% of the
premium rates for the Town’s Plan.
The employee will be expected to pay the difference as a payroll
deduction.
b. For all full-time employees hired on or after October 7, 2008, the Town will
pay the cost of either the individual or family plan for hospitalization under
the Riverhead Town Hospitalization plan as follows:
0 – 10 years of completed Town service: 75% of the premium
rates for the Empire Core Plus Enhancements Plan.
More than 10 years of completed Town service: 100% of the
premium rates for the Town’s Plan.
The employee will be expected to pay the difference as a payroll
deduction.
c. The Town will pay for 100% coverage for individual members of the CSEA
who hereafter retire from the Town and the Town will pay to the extent of
50% coverage on the premiums for the retiree’s family. An employee, at
20

--- PAGE 24 ---
7/3/24
his/her option, may decide not to accept the Town’s hospitalization
coverage for a period of not less than one calendar year and receive a
December payment as follows: if the employee drops from family to no
coverage, $1650; if the employee drops from family to individual coverage,
$900; and if the employee drops from individual to no coverage, $750,
except for those employees who, in 1996, received the buyback for
dropping from individual to no coverage, who will continue to receive
$1,500 until and unless they revert to individual or family coverage.
A new employee appointed during the year may receive a prorated
payment minus two months. In order to receive this cash payment, an
employee must sign an application form each and every year, and this
application will include an acknowledgment that the employee is covered
under another plan. The Town may elect to provide the above benefits
under a plan other than the Riverhead Town Hospitalization Plan,
provided that the substitute plan provides benefits comparable or better
than the existing plan.
d. Notwithstanding subsection “c” above, if, for the entire calendar year: (1)
at least 25 unit members drop from family to no coverage; and 2) at least
12 other unit members drop from family to individual coverage; then the
$1,650 (family to no coverage) December payment will increase to $2,475
for that year and the $900 (family to individual) December payment will
increase to $1,350 for that year. There will be no change to the December
payment for unit members who drop from individual to no coverage.
Notwithstanding subsection “c” above, for the entire calendar year: (1) at
least 26 unit members drop from family to no coverage; and 2) at least 12
other unit members drop from family to individual coverage; then the
$1,650 (family to no coverage) December payment will increase to $3,300
for that year and the $900 (family to individual) December payment will
increase to $1,800 for that year. There will be no change to the December
payment for unit members who drop from individual to no coverage.
This provision will sunset and be of no further force and effect as of
11:59:59 p.m. on December 31, 2025, unless extended by a written
agreement between the parties and ratified by the Town Board.
e. No part-time employee hired on or after April 1, 2007 will be entitled to
receive health insurance benefits from the Town or to otherwise
participate in the Town’s health insurance plans. All part-time employees
hired prior to April 1, 2007 will continue to be eligible to participate in and
receive health insurance benefits from the Town pursuant to the terms of
this agreement and the rules and regulations of the Town’s health
insurance provider.
21

--- PAGE 25 ---
7/3/24
f. If two persons are currently receiving (or are eligible to receive) family
health benefits through the Town, only one will be permitted to continue to
receive family level coverage. In this event, the person whose coverage
changes from family to individual or individual to no coverage will be
entitled to the health insurance buy-out. The employee may reinstate
coverage in the event of an emergency causing the loss of the other
person’s Town health insurance, consistent with the rules and regulations
of the Town’s health insurance plan and applicable laws and regulations.
At retirement, a former employee who is otherwise eligible for family
retiree health insurance coverage through the Town but for the
operation of this provision will continue to be ineligible for family retiree
health insurance coverage through the Town. However, during
retirement, the former employee may reinstate his/her own family
health insurance coverage, if the former employee has dependents as
defined in the Plan, in the event of an emergency causing the loss of
the other person’s Town health insurance, consistent with the rules
and regulations of the Town’s health insurance plan and applicable
rules and regulations.
g. Notwithstanding any prior practice to the contrary, the service requirement
for receipt on health insurance in retirement will be five consecutive years
of service with the Town, and 10 consecutive years of service with the
Town for all employees hired on or after October 7, 2008, and the
employee must either: (1) be employed by the Town on the last date
immediately prior to retirement into the NYSERS; or (2) have been
employed by the Town as his/her last public sector employer, and have
continuously self-paid his/her health insurance premiums to, and remained
enrolled in, the Town’s health insurance plan between the last date of
service with the Town and the date of vesting and receipt of benefits from
the NYSERS, whichever is applicable, as set forth in the NYSERS Rules
and Regulations (Part 256).
h. Health insurance coverage will commence upon the first day in the month
following the completion of three full calendar months of service for all
employees hired after October 7, 2008. Health insurance coverage will
terminate upon the last day in the second full month following the
completion of employment. Effective July 2, 2019, for employees with less
than 10 years of completed Town service, health insurance coverage will
terminate upon the last day in the first full month following the completion
of employment.
2. Life Insurance. The Town will insure the life of each employee in accordance
with the New York State Retirement Plan.
22

--- PAGE 26 ---
7/3/24
3. Dental Insurance
a. The Town will pay, on behalf of all active full-time and active regular part-
time employees, 100% of the cost of either the individual or family plan for
dental coverage under the Riverhead Town Dental Plan. The maximum
benefit for one dental expense period will be increased to $1,500 and the
aggregate maximum benefit for orthodontic treatment will be increased to
$1,500 per covered individual. An employee, at his/her option, may
decide not to accept the dental coverage for a period of not less than one
calendar year and receive a December payment of, if the employee drops
from family to no coverage: $230; if the employee drops from family to
individual coverage: $150; and if the employee drops from individual to no
coverage: $80. A new employee appointed during the year may receive a
prorated payment minus two months. In order to receive this cash
payment, an employee must sign an application form each year and this
application will include an acknowledgment that the employee is covered
under another plan. Dental coverage will commence upon the first day in
the month following the completion of four full calendar months of service
for all employees hired after October 7, 2008. Dental insurance coverage
will terminate upon the last day in the second full month following the
completion of employment. Effective July 2, 2019, for employees with less
than 10 years of completed Town service, dental insurance coverage will
terminate upon the last day in the first full month following the completion
of employment.
b. No part-time employee hired on or after April 1, 2007 will be entitled to
receive dental insurance benefits from the Town or to otherwise
participate in the Town’s dental insurance plan. All part-time employees
hired prior to April 1, 2007 will continue to be eligible to participate in and
receive dental insurance benefits from the Town pursuant to the terms of
this agreement.
c. If two persons are currently receiving (or are eligible to receive) family
dental insurance benefits through the Town, only one will be permitted to
continue to receive family level coverage. In this event, the person whose
coverage changes from family to individual coverage or no coverage will
be entitled to the dental insurance buy-out. Should that person choose to
decline to receive individual coverage, then that person will be eligible for
the buy-out of the individual coverage.
23

--- PAGE 27 ---
7/3/24
4. Optical Insurance
a. The Town will pay, on behalf of all active full-time and active regular part-
time employees, 100% of the cost of either the individual or family plan for
optical coverage under the Riverhead Town Optical Plan. An employee,
at his/her option, may decide not to accept the optical coverage for a
period of not less than one calendar year and receive a December
payment of $25. A new employee appointed during the year may receive
a prorated payment minus two months. An employee must sign an
application form each year and this application will include an
acknowledgment that the employee is covered under another plan.
Optical coverage will commence upon the first day in the month following
the completion of four full calendar months of service for all employees
hired after October 7, 2008. Optical insurance coverage will terminate
upon the last day in the second full month following the completion of
employment. Effective July 2, 2019, for employees with less than 10 years
of completed Town service, optical insurance coverage will terminate upon
the last day in the first full month following the completion of employment.
b. No part-time employee hired on or after April 1, 2007 will be entitled to
receive optical insurance benefits from the Town or to otherwise
participate in the Town’s optical insurance plan. All part-time employees
hired prior to April 1, 2007 will continue to be eligible to participate in and
receive optical insurance benefits from the Town pursuant to the terms of
this agreement.
c. If two persons are currently receiving (or are eligible to receive) family
optical insurance benefits through the Town, only one will be permitted to
continue to receive family level coverage. In this event, the person whose
coverage changes from family to individual coverage or no coverage will
be entitled to the optical insurance buy-out. Should that person decline to
receive individual coverage, then that person will be eligible for the buy-
out of the individual coverage.
5. HMO Plan
a. The Town will offer up to two HMO plans. Employees have the option of
choosing one of the two plans over the current Riverhead Town
Hospitalization Plan, but under no circumstances may the employee have
more than one plan.
b. The Town will continue to pay, on behalf of all full-time employees, the
cost of the hospitalization plan as follows:
0 – 8 years of completed Town Service: 75% of the rate set forth
by the Empire Core Plus Enhancements Plan.
24

--- PAGE 28 ---
7/3/24
More than 8 years of completed Town service: 100% of the rate
set forth by the Empire Core Plus Enhancements Plan.
c. For all full-time employees hired on or after October 7, 2008, the Town will
pay the cost of the hospitalization plan as follows:
0 – 10 years of completed Town service: 75% of the premium
rates for the Empire Core Plus Enhancements Plan.
More than 10 years of completed Town service: 100% of the
premium rates for the Town’s Plan.
6. Long Term Disability Plan. Employees will be permitted to voluntarily
participate in a long term disability plan through a payroll deduction. This
deduction will cover the total cost of the premium and any other costs
associated with the plan. The plan will be administered by the CSEA. The
Town will have no obligation to the CSEA or the employees other than to
make a payroll deduction for those employees who voluntarily authorize this
deduction in writing and then to forward the deducted amounts to the CSEA.
ARTICLE 11
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
1. The CSEA recognizes that all of the functions, rights, powers, responsibilities
and authority of the Town, which the Town has not specifically abridged,
deleted, delegated, granted or modified by this agreement are, and will
remain, exclusively those of the Town. The CSEA recognizes that the Town
has the responsibility to manage the Town, direct its employees, determine
the number of employees it will employ, has the right to hire, suspend,
discharge, discipline, promote, demote or transfer its employees, subject,
however, to the provisions of the Civil Service Law.
The CSEA agrees, in recognition of management’s rights, not to request the
Town to bargain with respect to the preceding paragraph during the term of
this agreement, except as otherwise specifically provided for herein, either as
to the basic decision or as to the effect of that decision upon wages, hours
and other terms and conditions of employment.
2. The CSEA and the Town Board recognize that strikes and other forms of
work stoppages by Civil Service employees are contrary to law and public
policy. The CSEA and the Town Board subscribe to the principle that
differences will be resolved by peaceful and appropriate means without
interruption of the normal duties necessary to the operation of the Town.
25

--- PAGE 29 ---
7/3/24
The CSEA, however, agrees, that there will be no strikes, work stoppages,
job actions or concerted refusals to perform work by employees covered by
this agreement or instigation thereof. The Town Board agrees to bargain in
good faith with the CSEA and to use no tactics that may be deemed as an
unfair practice. CSEA agrees not to enforce any clause that is in violation of
any Federal, State, County or local law or the past practice, that interferes
with the efficient operation of Town Government.
ARTICLE 12
GENERAL PROVISIONS
1. The Town Board agrees to provide legal counsel, either the Town-appointed
special counsel or the Town Attorney, to defend any employee in any action
arising out of an assault on an employee on Town business, provided the
employee was acting within the scope of his/her employment.
2. Upon the Town’s request, an employee’s fitness to serve will be evaluated by
a physician selected by the Town, provided, however, that the examination
will be conducted in a medical facility, including, but not limited to, a doctor’s
office, in Suffolk County not further west than the western border of
Brookhaven Town. In the case of a medical specialist, the examination must
take place within Suffolk County. The Town will reimburse the employee for
mileage to and from the examination at the then prevailing County of Suffolk
rate, upon submission by the employee of a form to be prepared by the
parties.
3. All openings for available positions covered by this agreement will be done
strictly in accord with Civil Service Law and the eligibility of those to be hired.
If appropriate, vacancies will be adequately published except in situations in
which no unit member is eligible to be appointed pursuant to Civil Service
Law and Regulations. All full-time and regular part-time vacancies (but not
seasonal, temporary or other vacancies), including position(s) to be filled, will
be adequately published. The president of this unit will receive a copy of
such announcement simultaneously with the posting thereof. In filling such
positions, preference will be given to present employees when three or more
qualified applicants submit their names for consideration provided notice is
given by the employee within five working days of notice being posted.
4. Leave of absence without pay may be granted to employees in the discretion
of the Town Board for a maximum of six months upon written application
therefor and good cause shown. Effective March 15, 2011, employees who
are on an unpaid leave of absence as of that date will be required to utilize a
minimum of 17.5 hours (white collar) or 20 hours (blue collar) of leave
accruals in order to continue to receive medical, dental and optical benefits
for that week. Once their leave ends, they and all other employees who are
26

--- PAGE 30 ---
7/3/24
granted an unpaid leave of absence will be required to utilize 35 hours (white
collar) or 40 hours (blue collar) of leave accruals in order to continue to
receive medical, dental and optical benefits for that week. This provision
does not affect workers’ compensation or other paid leaves of absence.
Any employee on a leave of absence will be notified by the Town prior to the
end of the leave and by certified mail to the employee’s last known address,
of the date of expected return to work following the end of the leave. Any
employee who fails to return to work within 10 days of the designated day will
be deemed to have abandoned his/her position with the Town. The employee
will then be deemed to have waived any applicable due process protections
otherwise available including, but not limited, to those pursuant to Civil
Service Law Section 75 or this Agreement, and may be terminated by the
Town at its discretion.
5. Any employee who is absent without leave or without due notification to the
Town Supervisor will suffer loss of pay for the days of such absence. When
an employee is absent without leave or without due notification to the Town
Supervisor three times of any duration in a period of one year, these
unauthorized absences are cause for dismissal.
6. Uniforms & Cleaning Allowance
a. During the first year of employment, those employees appointed during
the first six months (January – June) will receive the full allotment of
uniforms. Those appointed during the second six months (July –
December) will receive three uniform shirts and three uniform pants.
100% cotton uniforms will be provided at the employee’s option. The
Town will provide all full-time “Operational and Technical” employees with
five uniform shirts and five uniform pants each year by not later than April
15 or 60 days from the date of a new hire’s appointment by the Town
Board. All full-time “Operational and Technical” employees are required to
report to work in Town-issued uniforms. All full-time “Operational and
Technical” employees will receive a spring and winter jacket when needed
and deemed necessary by their department head. An employee may
request, in lieu of a winter jacket, one set of insulated coveralls.
b. All full-time “Clerical & Supervisory”, “Administrative” and “Public Safety
Dispatcher” employees and any employee classified as a Parking Meter
Officer will receive a prorated cleaning allowance in the sum of $400 to be
paid during the week of December 15 to December 25. Any employee
receiving a Town-issued uniform will be ineligible to receive the allowance
during that year. “Full-time Public Safety Dispatchers’” and full-time
employees classified as Parking Meter Officers, Building Department
“Inspectors,” Harbormasters and Cooks are required to report to work in
Town-issued uniforms. The Town will provide these employees with five
27

--- PAGE 31 ---
7/3/24
uniform shirts and five uniform pants/skirts each year by not later than
April 15 or 60 days from the date of a new hire’s appointment by the Town
Board. During the first year of employment, those employees appointed
during the first six months (January – June) will receive the full allotment
of uniforms. Those appointed during the second six months (July –
December) will receive three uniform shirts and three uniform pants/skirts.
All regular part-time employees in these classifications will receive a
number of uniforms equal to the number of days in their regularly
scheduled work week; in no event, though, to exceed the annual uniform
allotment provided to a full-time employee in the same classification.
7. There will be paid to authorized employees, using private transportation on
Town business, upon approval by the Town Supervisor, mileage at the
mileage rate set forth by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
8. Work-related inoculations will be provided by the Town as required by PESH
or law.
9. All employees of the Town will be paid every two weeks on Thursday of the
latter week.
10. Effective November 6, 2008, a lag payroll will be implemented for all
employees as follows:
a. Employees whose pay checks are subject to a two week payroll lag as of
the date on which the 2008-2010 Agreement is fully ratified and approved
will receive their regular pay checks for the pay period of October 12, 2008
through October 25, 2008 on November 6, 2008, as scheduled, and their
regular pay checks for the pay period of October 26, 2008 through
November 8, 2008 on November 20, 2008, as scheduled.
b. Employees whose pay checks are not subject to a two week payroll lag as
of October 7, 2008 will receive their regular pay checks for the pay period
of October 26, 2008 through November 8, 2008 on November 20, 2008,
rather than on November 6, 2008, as scheduled.
c. For all employees, pay checks will be issued on November 20, 2008 and
every two weeks thereafter.
d. Any retroactive base salary increases owed by the Town to employees as
a result of the implementation of the provisions of the 2008-2010
Agreement will be paid on November 6, 2008.
e. Any lag payroll agreement entered into prior to October 7, 2008 will be null
and void upon the full and complete implementation of this Article 12,
Section 10.
28

--- PAGE 32 ---
7/3/24
f. By no later than October 17, 2008, an employee whose retroactive pay
check will be inadequate to cover the dollar value of the number of days to
be lagged pursuant to this Agreement may submit a written request to the
Accounting Department to buy-back, in single day (seven or eight hour)
increments, up to three days of unused accrued leave time and/or
compensatory time (seven or eight hour increments). The form attached
to the 2008-2010 Agreement will be used for all buy-back requests.
11. The time sheet attached to the 2008-2010 Agreement will continue to be used
for all employees not required to use another time and attendance recording
mechanism. An employee will be provided with a copy of his/her signed time
sheet upon request.
12. An employee, following proper notification to the Town Supervisor, may be
permitted to review his/her official employment personnel file within 10
business days of the request. Any material classified as confidential will not
be subject to duplication by the employee, but he/she will have an opportunity
to read said materials and make a written reply within 10 business days which
will be inserted in the employee’s personnel folder. This period of time will be
extended, on a business day by business day basis, for any business day on
which the employee is physically incapable of writing the reply.
13. To the extent permitted by the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and the New York
State Income Tax Laws, the Town will establish a deferred compensation
plan for the employees covered by this Agreement.
14. For the purpose of negotiations for future contracts and reopening provisions
as covered by this agreement, the Town and the CSEA agree to limit each
team to no more than six members. The CSEA Negotiating Team consisting
of six members will be inclusive of the CSEA representative. The teams will
be determined at the start of the negotiating session and remain the same
until these sessions are concluded.
15. Labor/Management meetings will be held quarterly with three members each
from the Town and the CSEA. The Unit President will notify the Town of the
membership of CSEA at the beginning of the year and any subsequent
changes prior to these meetings.
16. The Unit President will be notified when there will be an addition of a new title
to the salary schedules. This notification is strictly advisory and in no way
binding.
17. Employee of the Quarter/Year. The employee selected as Employee of the
Quarter and/or Year by the Labor/Management Committee will be awarded
one additional vacation day. Nothing contained in this paragraph, nor any
29

--- PAGE 33 ---
7/3/24
action or inaction of the Committee, will be subject to the grievance procedure
or to any PERB or Court proceeding.
18. Contract Reproduction. A draft of the new contract will be prepared by the
Town and submitted to the CSEA within 60 calendar days after the complete
ratification/approval of the Agreement. The CSEA will present to the Town, in
writing, all objections to the draft, specifying the page, section, paragraph and
line number(s), and the specific basis for the objection, within 30 calendar
days from its receipt of the draft or the draft will be deemed acceptable to the
parties and the Town will proceed to print and distribute the contract within
the next 60 calendar days. The parties will endeavor to resolve any
differences within the 30 calendar days following the Town’s receipt of the
CSEA’s timely objections.
19. Retirement Notice. Employees must provide at least 30 days’ written notice to
the Town prior to retirement.
ARTICLE 13
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
1. If an employee is injured or assaulted on the job while acting within the scope
of the employee’s employment and the employee reports same to the
department head and the Town Supervisor’s Office, and the employee has to
be absent from work due to an injury or assault, no days will be deducted
from the employee’s accumulated sick leave during the duration of the
absence, until either the employee applies for reinstatement to full-duty
status, a physician determines that the employee is able to return to work, or
the employee has received full salary for one year, whichever comes first;
provided, however, that if the employee is determined to be permanently
disabled, no days will be deducted until either a final determination on an
application for a disability pension, a physician determines that the employee
is able to return to work, or the employee has received full salary for two
years, whichever comes first. The Town will notify the employee 90 days
before the end of the two year period is about to expire. If an employee
receiving full salary receives a compensation check for lost time due to a
compensable injury, the employee will endorse the check over to the Town.
Accrued leave time will be used during the first five days of any absence. If
Worker’s Compensation awards the Town reimbursement for any or all of
these five days, then the day(s) will be recredited to the employee.
2. The Town will pay 100% of the employee’s salary for the first six months
during which the employee is absent from work, and 85% of the employee’s
salary for any time beyond that period. Effective for employees who
commence a workers’ compensation leave of absence on or after July 2,
2019, the Town will pay the following percentages of an employee’s salary for
30

--- PAGE 34 ---
7/3/24
employees who are absent from work pursuant to this provision: 100% for the
first three months; 90% for months four through six; and 85% for months six
through 12. If an employee remains on a workers’ compensation leave of
absence in excess of 12 months, he/she will receive the amount of salary
provided to him/her by the Workers’ Compensation Board. Nothing contained
herein will in any way be deemed to restrict the Town’s right to separate
employees pursuant to the provisions of Civil Service Law Sections 71-73.
3. Effective March 22, 2023, employees who are absent pursuant to this Article
must, for each of the first five days that the employee is absent, e-mail the
Personnel Department using the Town’s designated e-mail address in
accordance with Article 5(1)(e) (“Sick Leave”), unless and until the employee
submits to the Personnel Department, using the above-referenced designated
e-mail address, a doctor’s note indicating the date(s) on which the employee
will be absent due to the work-related illness or injury.
ARTICLE 14
JOB CLASSIFICATION AND
SALARY ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
1. The parties agree that job classification and salary administration will be in
accord with “The Salary Administration Program, dated October 6, 1975”.
The parties further agree that this program may be amended by the Town as
time and circumstances warrant, provided that these amendments are not
contrary to the further terms and conditions of this contract. These
amendments will include, but will not be limited to, the amendment or addition
of job descriptions.
2. In the implementation of “The Salary Administration Program”, promotions of
employees and their assignment to the salary schedule, except as are set
forth herein, are subject to the Town Board discretion. Employees will be
guaranteed at least a 3% increase in salary as a result of the promotion and
assignment to the salary schedule. Formal written evaluations will be
conducted at least once per year pursuant to the Annual Performance Review
form. These employee evaluations will be placed in each employee’s
personnel file. The procedure for requesting a promotion will be as set forth in
the Town’s “Promotional Policy.”
3. “The Salary Administration Program” will be administered in conformity with
the New York State Civil Service Law and the rules of the Department of Civil
Service, County of Suffolk.
4. For the period of this contract (January 1, 2023 to December 31, 2025), the
“Salary Structure” for the “Administrative,” “Clerical and Supervisory,”
“Operational and Technical,” “Public Safety Dispatcher,” employees will be
31

--- PAGE 35 ---
7/3/24
set forth on Exhibit “A” attached hereto for the year 2023, Exhibit “B” for the
year 2024 and Exhibit “C” for the year 2025.
ARTICLE 15
WAGES
1. Employees will receive an annual salary as set forth on the “Salary
Schedule”.
2. Effective retroactive to January 1, 2023, for employees on the Town’s payroll
as of the date of the complete ratification and approval of the 2023-2025
Agreement, each step on the 2022 salary schedule will be increased by 5%
and the base salary of each employee who is off-step will be increased by 5%
(hereafter, the “2023 salary schedule”). In addition, effective retroactive to
January 1, 2023, for employees on the Town’s payroll as of the date of the
complete ratification and approval of the 2023-2025 Agreement, the 2023
salary schedule will be increased by a one-time, non-recurring adjustment of
$1,500 (hereafter, the “adjusted 2023 salary schedule”). Employees on a
Town-approved unpaid leave of absence as of the date of the complete
ratification and approval of the 2023-2025 Agreement, will receive the above-
referenced salary increases prospectively upon return to the payroll following
their respective leave of absence.
Effective January 1, 2024, each step on the adjusted 2023 salary schedule
will be increased by 2% and the base salary of each employee who is off-step
will be increased by 2%.
Effective January 1, 2025, each step on the 2024 salary schedule will be
increased by 2% and the base salary of each employee who is off-step will be
increased by 2%.
3. On each January 1, all employees not on the “P” Step or Step “19” will move
a total of one step from their step placement as of the prior December 31 to
the next available step within their group.
4. An employee, excluding any part-time employee, e.g., detention attendants,
recalled after he/she has finished his/her regular hours of work, will receive a
minimum of two hours credited as time worked at the applicable overtime
rate. No compensation, other than the minimum recall compensation, will be
earned until the employee will begin his/her third hour of recall.
5. Overtime will be paid at the rate of 1 1/2 times the employee’s hourly rate of
pay except as set forth in Article 3, Section 2. Overtime will be computed on a
weekly basis on the 35 hour work week for “Clerical and Supervisory” and
“Administrative” employees and 40 hour work week for “Operational and
32

--- PAGE 36 ---
7/3/24
Technical” employees. Employees may be paid for overtime and/or
compensatory time off in one of the following manners: (a) in compensatory
time off, pursuant to Article 15 (6); (b) in compensatory time off that is
converted by the employee to overtime and then paid in a separate monthly
payroll, run during the first full payroll period of that month, provided the
request is submitted to the Accounting Department by not later than the 25th
of the preceding month, and provided further that the compensatory time off
will be used within a given calendar year and, if not used, will be paid at
year’s end at the employee’s pay rate in effect at the time the compensatory
time was earned; or (c) in overtime which is included in a timely submitted
biweekly time sheet, which will be paid to the employee in the next biweekly
paycheck.
The employee will continue to indicate on the biweekly time sheet which
method at his/her option the employee elects to utilize in that pay period. In
the event no method is chosen, the default will be option (c).
Overtime will accrue on a full-hour basis only, but a full hour need not be
accrued consecutively in terms of minutes worked on a daily basis. An
employee’s hourly rate of pay will be based on his/her daily rate of pay.
The daily rate of pay will be determined annually by dividing the employee’s
annual base salary as shown on the “Salary Structure” by the number of
regular working days (inclusive of holidays) in that year. An employee’s
hourly rate of pay will be his/her daily rate of pay divided by seven hours for
“Clerical and Supervisory” and “Administrative” employees and eight hours for
“Operational and Technical” and “Public Safety Dispatcher” employees. The
Public Safety Dispatchers” daily rate of pay will be calculated at 1/238 of
his/her annual salary.
6. Compensatory time off for overtime hours worked (in lieu of overtime pay) will
be at the rate of 1 1/2 hours of compensatory time off for each overtime hour
worked. Employees will be able to accumulate compensatory time up to the
FLSA cap (currently 240 hours). Compensatory time off must be claimed by
the employee prior to the processing of overtime pay by the Office of the
Town Supervisor. Compensatory time can be allowed or disallowed at the
option and scheduling of the Department Head. Employees may be paid for
overtime and/or compensatory time off in one of the following manners: (a) in
compensatory time off, pursuant to Article 15 (6); (b) in compensatory time off
that is converted by the employee to overtime and then paid in a separate
monthly payroll, run during the first full payroll period of that month, provided
the request is submitted to the Accounting Department by not later than the
25th of the preceding month, and provided further that the compensatory time
off will be used within a given calendar year and, if not used, will be paid at
year’s end at the employee’ s pay rate in effect at the time the compensatory
time was earned; or (c) in overtime which is included in a timely submitted
33

--- PAGE 37 ---
7/3/24
biweekly time sheet, which will be paid to the employee in the next biweekly
paycheck.
The employee will continue to indicate on the biweekly time sheet which
method at his/her option the employee elects to utilize in that pay period. In
the event no method is chosen, the default will be option (c.)
7. A part-time detention attendant when called in to work will receive a minimum
of three hours credited as time worked at the applicable straight-time rate.
8. At the option and direction of the Town Board, probationary employees, for
the first 12 months of their employment, will be paid at a rate of pay as
specified in Column “P” of the attached Salary Schedule.
9. The Town will provide direct deposit for all unit members. It is agreed that
those unit members who decide to utilize direct deposit will be required to
work during the period of time when they had previously been excused to
cash their paychecks. Effective July 2, 2019, all employees will participate in
the direct deposit of paychecks and provide the relevant bank account
information to the Town. The Town will provide access to electronic paystubs
and the option to print them using Town computers in accordance with
applicable law. An employee who does not have a bank account as of July 2,
2019 will open one within 30 calendar days, even if solely for the purpose of
participating in direct deposit of paychecks. In addition, employees who are
on a workers’ compensation leave of absence will be required to periodically
submit a payment certification form, to be provided by the Town. The contents
of this form and the procedures for submitting it will be in the Town’s sole,
non-reviewable discretion.
10. Pesticide Application License Stipend. Any employee possessing a valid
pesticide application license and whose jobs duties require the possession of
same, will be paid a prorated annual stipend of $1,000 (effective retroactive to
January 1, 2023, $1,250) in lieu of any reimbursement for the cost of
obtaining, maintaining and/or renewing the license outside of the employee’s
regular working hours, with the Town continuing to pay for courses that are
taken during the employee’s regular working hours.
11. Water and Waste Water Operator License Stipend. Any full-time employee
who meets the State requirements for taking a course to obtain a water or
waste water plant operator’s grade license may have the Town pay for the
tuition for the course(s) required to obtain that license, provided that the
course (s) is/are offered, within a six month prospective rolling period, at the
scheduled location in New York State that is geographically closest to the
Town. If the employee fails to obtain the license on the first try, then the
employee will then be required to pay for the cost of any additional courses
required to obtain that license.
34

--- PAGE 38 ---
7/3/24
12. Standby Pay. Any full-time licensed and Civil Service titled Waste Water
Treatment Plant Operator and Water Treatment Plant Operator, as well as
any employee holding a “Senior” designation within these titles, may be
designated to remain on standby. Eligible employees will be designated
pursuant to a rotating list. Assignments will be made on a rotating basis by
Town-wide seniority. Employees so designated must be available by phone,
beeper or pager and be able to respond to the Plant fully fit for duty within 15
minutes of notification to report to work. These employees will be eligible to
receive standby pay at the rate of one hour of straight pay for each eight hour
shift on which the employee is ordered to remain on standby. If the employee
is recalled while on standby, then the employee will be entitled only to recall
and not standby pay.
13. When a full-time employee is reduced to part-time status at the employee’s
request, his/her new salary will be proportionately reduced from the
employee’s last full-time hourly rate.
14. The hourly rate of any part-time employee hired after October 7, 2008 will be
calculated from a base salary of the applicable “P” step minus $2,000.
ARTICLE 16
DRESS CODE
The parties agree that each employee will wear attire appropriate for their job
duties and responsibilities. Employees who interact with the public will not wear
shorts, T-shirts, tank tops, or jeans, unless they receive their supervisor’s prior
permission to do so. Effective March 22, 2023, employees are expressly
prohibited from wearing belly shirts/crop tops, low-cut blouses, micro-minis, cut-off
shirts, or ripped jeans while performing work for the Town.
ARTICLE 17
DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING
1. The purpose of this Article is to establish a written procedure for conducting
tests of an employee when there is reasonable suspicion that such employee
is under the influence of or using illegal controlled substances or alcohol as
set forth in paragraph 3 below. An employee will be tested only when
reasonable suspicion exists that such test would yield a positive result for the
presence of illegal controlled substances or their metabolites or alcohol.
2. The use of illegal controlled substances or alcohol by an employee,
regardless of the position held, adversely affects the accomplishment of the
Town’s ability to safely deliver services, impairs the efficiency of the
35

--- PAGE 39 ---
7/3/24
workforce, endangers the lives of employees and the public and undermines
the public trust and is, therefore, prohibited. In order to identify possible
illegal controlled substance usage, and to curtail the use of illegal controlled
substances and alcohol, procedures to test for the use of illegal controlled
substances and alcohol upon reasonable suspicion have been established in
this Article.
3. Employees will be subject to testing based upon a reasonable suspicion as
defined below in this paragraph. Any employee who refuses to submit to
testing may be subject to discipline, including discharge.
a. In determining whether to order a test in a particular case, the Town must
balance an employee’s reasonable expectation of privacy from
unreasonable intrusions against the Town’s interest in assuring the
integrity and fitness its employees and the safe delivery of its services.
b. The order to submit to testing must be justified by a reasonable suspicion
that the employee has reported for duty under the influence of illegal
controlled substances or alcohol or is engaging in the possession, use,
distribution, or sale of illegal controlled substances either on or off duty.
c. While the “reasonable suspicion” standard does not lend itself to precise
definition or mechanical application, vague, unparticularized, unspecified,
or rudimentary hunches or intuitive feelings do not meet the standard.
d. Reasonable suspicion is the quantum of knowledge sufficient to induce an
ordinarily prudent and cautious person to act under the circumstances.
Reasonable suspicion must be directed at a specific person and be based
on specific and articulable facts and the logical inferences and deductions
that can be drawn from those facts.
e. Reasonable suspicion may be based upon, among other matters:
observable phenomena, such as direct observation of use and/or the
physical symptoms of using or being under the influence of illegal
controlled substances such as, but not limited to, slurred speech;
disorientation; a pattern of abnormal conduct or erratic behavior; conduct
or behavior which warrants employer inquiry because of a direct bearing
of the mental faculties of the employee on the health and safety of others;
action(s) inconsistent with normal conduct or behavior; or information
provided either by reliable and credible sources or which is independently
corroborated.
f. The Town will not test solely on the information of anonymous sources
unless the information is reliable and credible, or there is corroborative
evidence to support the reliability of that information.
36

--- PAGE 40 ---
7/3/24
g. It is intended that where a decision is made to test, the employee will be
given a direct order to submit to the test, and the CSEA will be notified of
such order.
4. Urinalysis will be in accordance with the standards and procedures
incorporated in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Mandatory Guidelines for Federal Workplace Drug Testing Programs, issued
April 11, 1988, 53 F. R. 11973, as amended by 59 F.R. 29908 (1994), 62 F.R.
51118 (1997) and 63 F.R. 63483 (1998), etc., and the following:
a. The employee being tested will have the right to an independent analysis
of the specimen from a lab of his/her choice from a list mutually agreed to
by the Town and the Union. The employee will designate, at the time the
specimen is given, the laboratory, if any, chosen by such employee, and a
specimen will be provided to that laboratory, as well as to the laboratory
designated by the Town. Copies of all test results will be sent to the
employee and the Town.
b. All tests required by the Town will be fully paid for by the Town. The
employee will pay for any tests required by him/her.
c. All test results will be kept confidential except as necessary to implement
the terms and conditions of this policy.
d. The time required of the employee by the Town to take the ordered test
will be considered paid time if it extends beyond the employee’s normal
work day.
e. Within 10 business days after the test, the employee may file a grievance
pursuant to the terms of the parties’ collective bargaining agreement. If
the grievance is not filed within 10 business days after the test, the
employee may raise the issue of reasonable suspicion in any disciplinary
proceeding initiated by the Town against the employee in connection with
which the drug test is used; but in no event will the employee and/or the
Union be able to litigate the issue of “reasonable suspicion” in both
proceedings.
5. In the event that test procedures reveal the presence of illegal controlled
substances or their metabolites or alcohol, such employee may be subject to
discipline, including discharge. However, in the first instance of such positive
alcohol or drug test, any related disciplinary charges may be suspended in
the Town’s discretion if the employee agrees in writing to complete
counseling and treatment on his/her own time for such illegal controlled
substances or alcohol usage in a program recommended or approved by an
Employee Assistance Plan (EAP) previously selected by the Town and the
CSEA, and allows the EAP to provide progress reports to the Town
37

--- PAGE 41 ---


--- PAGE 42 ---
7/3/24
2023/2025 CLERICAL & SUPERVISORY SALARY STRUCTURE
Group Title
A Open
B Driver Messenger
C Homemaker
D Food Service Worker
1 Assistant Cook
2 Clerk/Switchboard Operator/Recreation
Aide/Cook/Senior Citizen Aide
3 Open
4 Mini-Bus Driver/Bus Driver/Office Assistant/Senior
Cook/Administrative Aide/Senior Citizen Aide II/Cashier
5 Assessment Clerk/Assistant Recreation Center
Manager/Senior Citizen Assistant/Assistant Senior
Citizen Center Manager/Real Property Recorder I/Senior
Park Attendant
6 Asst. Recreation Leader/Asst. Adult Day Care Program
Supervisor
7 Senior Clerk/Stenographer
8 Senior Office Assistant /Court Stenographer/Legal
Stenographer
9 Account Clerk/Recreation Center Manager/Senior
Assessment Clerk/Senior Stenographer/Nutrition Center
Manager/Senior Citizen Center Manager/Records
Management Assistant
10 Assessment Assistant/Secretarial Assistant
11 Senior Account Clerk/Justice Court Clerk/Drug Court
Specialist/Senior Neighborhood Aide/Principal Office
Assistant
12 Senior Justice Court Clerk/Detention Attendant/Principal
Assessment Clerk
13 Open
14 Open
15 Open
16 Open
39

--- PAGE 43 ---
7/3/24
2023/2025 ADMINISTRATIVE SALARY SCHEDULE
Group Title
1 Bingo Inspector/Senior Citizen Program Supervisor
2 Administrative Assistant/Recreation Leader/Building Permits
Examiner/Code Enforcement Officer (Spanish Speaking)
3 Community Development Specialist I/Asst. Recreation Program
Coordinator
4 Youth Counselor/Recreation Supervisor/Community
Development Program Technician/Purchasing
Technician/Recreation Program Coordinator/Principal Account
Clerk/Network & System Technician/Code Compliance
Coordinator/Budget Technician/Grants Technician/Community
Relations Specialist/Fire Prevention Inspector/Cultural Affairs
Supervisor
5 Planning Aide/Ordinance Inspector/Computer Operator
II/Housing Inspector/Public Relations Specialist/Insurance
Manager/Chief Office Assistant/Network Specialist I
6 Building Inspector/Harbormaster/Senior Citizen Program
Director/Fire Marshal I/Computer Graphics Mapping
Specialist/Payroll Supervisor/Building Permit Coordinator/Jr.
Civil Engineer Trainee/Zoning Inspector/Electrical
Inspector/Engineering Inspector/Justice Court
Director/Executive Director of Youth Bureau/Network Specialist
II/Principal Engineering Aide/Grants Analyst
7 Site Plan Reviewer/Purchasing Agent/Assistant Recreation
Superintendent/Fire Marshal II/Jr. Civil
Engineer/Accountant/Grants Coordinator/Paralegal/EDZ
Coordinator/Assistant Community Development Projects
Coordinator/Senior Administrative Assistant/Auditor/Ordinance
Enforcement Officer/GIS Supervisor/Associate Administrator
8 Senior Building Inspector/Zoning & Building
Administrator/Town Intergovernmental Relations
Coordinator/Senior Purchasing Agent
9 Planner/Chief Building Inspector/Principal Building
Inspector/Senior Auditor/Asst. Town Engineer/Environmental
Planner/Assistant Civil Engineer/Network & Systems
Administrator/Computer Operator II/Town Investigator
10 Senior Planner/Assistant Town Planning Director/Chief Fire
Marshal
11 Open
40

--- PAGE 44 ---
7/3/24
12 Senior Town Investigator/Civil Engineer/Senior Civil Engineer
13 Open
14 Open
41

--- PAGE 45 ---
7/3/24
2023/2025 OPERATIONAL & TECHNICAL SALARY SCHEDULE
Group Title
A Guard/Court Attendant/Crossing Guard
B Open
C Open
D Open
1 Custodial Worker I
2 Parking Meter Officer I/Scale Operator I
3 Laborer/Custodial Worker II/Kennel
Attendant/Groundskeeper I/Water Meter Reader
4 Maintenance Mechanic I
5 Animal Control Officer I
6 Automotive Equipment Operator
7 Maintenance Mechanic II/Heavy Equipment Operator
8 Maintenance Mechanic III/Auto Mechanic II
9 Construction Equipment Operator/Auto Mechanic
III/Wastewater Treatment & Water Treatment Plant
Operator Trainees
10 Town Building Maintenance Crew Leader/Animal Control
Officer II
11 Traffic Signal Maintenance Supervisor
12 Auto Mechanic IV/Highway Maintenance Crew
Leader/Maintenance Mechanic IV/Grounds Maintenance
Supervisor
13 Open
14 Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator II & IIA/Water
Maintenance Crew Leader
15 Maintenance Mechanic V/Auto Mechanic V/Highway
General Supervisor/Electrical Services Supervisor/Water
Treatment Plant Operator IIB
16 Senior Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator II/Water
Treatment Plant Operator IB/Wastewater Treatment
Plant Operator III/Senior Water Treatment Plant Operator
IIB
42

--- PAGE 46 ---
7/3/24
17 Senior Water Treatment Plant Operator IB/Senior
Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator III/Wastewater
Treatment Plant Operator IIIA
18 Senior Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator IIIA
19 Open
20 Town Building Maintenance Supervisor
43

--- PAGE 47 ---
7/3/24
2023/2025 PUBLIC SAFETY DISPATCHER SALARY SCHEDULE
Group Title
1 Public Safety Dispatcher I
2 Public Safety Dispatcher II
44

--- PAGE 48 ---
7/3/24
45

--- PAGE 49 ---
7/3/24
46

--- PAGE 50 ---
7/3/24
47

--- PAGE 51 ---
7/3/24
48

--- PAGE 52 ---
7/3/24
49

--- PAGE 53 ---
7/3/24
50

--- PAGE 54 ---
7/3/24
51

--- PAGE 55 ---
7/3/24
52

--- PAGE 56 ---
7/3/24
53

--- PAGE 57 ---
7/3/24
54

--- PAGE 58 ---
7/3/24
55

--- PAGE 59 ---
7/3/24
56

--- PAGE 60 ---
7/3/24
57

--- PAGE 61 ---
7/3/24
58

--- PAGE 62 ---
7/3/24
59